# Research Ideas

<details>
<summary><i>Physics Education Systemic Analysis</i> </summary>

* Simulation of students with "true" GPAs compared to the effects of homogenization of MSU and GT. True GPAs should use 24-ish randomly selected grades from a Gaussian distrubtion centered around characteristic A-student, B-student, and C-student values.  
* Generalized investigation of "perverse incentives" created by grading and deadline systems. 
* Game Theory as a necessary pre-requisite to education research
* Investigate atomization of assignments as a source of "overhead"

</details>

I would prefer the theme of my physics education research to be systemic quantization. That is, I would like to look at what we quantify, how we quantify it, and what kind of effects the act of quantization has on the student experience. I would prefer to avoid making up new quantities if possible as I feel this invites unhealthy/bad faith skepticism and obfuscates the core issues plaguing education rather than illuminating them. Another way of putting this, when I explain my research to someone else, I don't want to explain what I'm doing, I want to explain what the education system is doing, and then go on to explain what is wrong with it. 

<details>
<summary><i>Data Visualization</i> </summary>

* Animating/visualizing statistical data with Manim. One example is reversing the galactic two-point correlation function to obtain a descriptive picture of what is taking place. 
* I also would like to do this for precipitation theory
* This has the potential for a lot of overlap with physics education research. 

</details>

Statistical analysis is incredibly unintuitive and dry. I would like to try to liven it up and make it more intuitive by adapting 3Blue1Brown's style of making informative Youtube videos to graduate-level astronomy, astrophysics, and astrostatistics. 

<details>
<summary><i>blk</i> </summary>

Better alternative to yt. 

Features: 

- Live/WYSIWYG plotting that wraps matplotlib
- Runs on graphics cards (is this possible in python?) and/or in parallel
- Queries and caches relevant data and takes advantage of this data access pattern
- Organizes dataset access, allows user control over and information about cache

</details>